Create 2021-04-08-kubernetes-release-1.21.md (#27233)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2021-04-08-kubernetes-release-1.21.md

### PersistentVolume Health Monitor
Physical Volumes (PV) are commonly used in applications to get local, file-based storage. They can be used in many different ways and help users migrate applications without needing to re-write storage backends.

Kubernetes 1.21 has a new alpha feature which allows PVs to be monitored for health of the volume and marked accordingly if the volume becomes unhealthy. Workloads will be able to react to the health state to protect data from being written or read from a volume that is unhealthy.

### Reducing Kubernetes Build Maintenance
Previously Kubernetes has maintained multiple build systems. This has often been a source of friction and complexity for new and current contributors.

Over the last release cycle, a lot of work has been put in to simplify the build process, and standardize on the native Golang build tools. This should empower broader commmunity maintenance, and lower the barier to entry for new contributors.

> ## Major Changes

Reviewer: One more feature deprecation to add:

```
### Topology-Aware Routing of Services Deprecation
Topology-aware service routing is being replaced with a new feature called topology-aware hints, which will be released as alpha in Kubernetes 1.21. You can read more about the proposed changes [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2433) 
```

Reviewer: Let's add this below the PSP deprecation (smaller scale)

Author: Done in the latest  commit :)

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes 1.21: XXXX'
date: 2021-04-08
slug: kubernetes-1-21-release-announcement
---

**Authors:** [Kubernetes 1.21 Release Team](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/blob/master/releases/release-1.21/release_team.md)

We’re pleased to announce the release of Kubernetes 1.21, our first release of 2021!

> This release consists of 50 enhancements: 15 enhancements have graduated to stable, 15 enhancements are moving to beta, and 19 enhancements are entering alpha.

Reviewer 2: Can we change the number 50 to 49?

We have 2 deprecations, making 51 total enhancements tracked for the release. But, I believe we don't include the 2 deprecations in the total number in the blog post.

Author: Done, thank you so much for this!

## Major Themes

### CronJobs Graduate to Stable!

> CronJobs (previously ScheduledJobs) has been a beta feature since Kubernetes 1.8! With 1.21 we get to finally see this widely used API graduate to stable.

Reviewer 3: If we want to, we can link to[`/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/cron-jobs/`](https://k8s.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/cron-jobs/)

> CronJobs are meant for performing all time-related actions, namely backups, report generation and the like. Each of these tasks should be allowed to run repeatedly (once a day/month, etc.) or once at a given point in time.

Reviewer 2: I feel like the phrasing of `and the like` here is a bit confusing? Is there a better way to phrase it?

Reviewer 3: “and so on” is more widely recognized by non-native English speakers, I think.

Author: I've modified it to "and so on" in the current commit. Do let me know if the former sounds better in comparison to the one we have right now.

> https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/19

Reviewer 4: Was this meant to be included here? The other enhancement blurbs don't have a link :x

Author: @salaxander / @rothgar : Please can you comment? 

@mrbobbytables : Would it make more sense to remove this or retain this & add others, as well?

Reviewer 2: +1 to removing it or if the link is needed, it's also probably better to wrap it in a text instead of having the full link

Reviewer: Sorry not meant to be included! @rothgar and I were using them to track the KEP info

Author: I've removed this link in the latest commit, thank you everyone!

> ### IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack support

Reviewer 3: As this is sandwiched between two graduations to stable, let's call out that _this_ one is still beta.
```suggestion
### IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack support (beta) {#dual-stack-support}
```

Reviewer 3: Or: move it after Immutable Secrets and ConfigMaps

Author: Moved it after Immutable Secrets & ConfigMaps in the latest commit. Thanks!

> IP addresses are a consumable resource operators and cluster administrators need to make sure are not exhausted. Having dual-stack support enables native IPv6 routing to pods and services, and it also improves a possible scaling limitation for workloads.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
IP addresses are a consumable resource that cluster operators and administrators need to make sure are not exhausted. Having dual-stack support enables native IPv6 routing to pods and services, and it also improves a possible scaling limitation for workloads.
```
Small suggestion to help readability^^;;;

Reviewer 3: BTW, single-stack IPv6 has been stable for a while. Dual-stack lets you use IPv6 in your cluster and also talk to the rest of the internet!

Reviewer 3: If we want to, we can link to[`/docs/concepts/services-networking/dual-stack/`](https://k8s.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/dual-stack/)

Author: Done in the latest commit, do let me  know if this needs rewording.

Dual-stack support in Kubernetes means pods, services, and nodes can get IPv4 addresses and IPv6 addresses. In Kubernetes 1.21 dual-stack support is graduating from alpha to beta and is now enabled by default.

### Immutable Secrets and ConfigMaps
Immutable Secrets and ConfigMaps adds a new field to those resource types which will reject changes to those objects if set. Secrets and ConfigMaps by default are mutable which is beneficial for pods that are able to consume changes. Mutating Secrets and ConfigMaps can also cause problems if a bad configuration is pushed for pods that use them.

> 

Reviewer 3: If it's useful, we can link to [`/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/#configmap-immutable`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/#configmap-immutable) and [`/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#secret-immutable`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#secret-immutable)

Author: I've added this in the latest commit, believe it would be useful. Thank you!

By marking Secrets and ConfigMaps as immutable you can be sure your application configuration won't change. If you want to make changes you'll need to create a new, uniquly named Secret or ConfigMap and deploy a new pod to consume that resource. Immutable resources also have scaling benefits because controllers do not need to poll the API server to watch for changes.
This feature is now graduating to stable in Kubernetes 1.21.

### Graceful Node Shutdown

> Graceful Node shutdown is graduating to beta with this release (and will now be available to a much larger group of users!). This is a hugely beneficial feature that allows Kubelet to be aware of Node shutdown, and gracefully terminate Pods that are scheduled to that Node.

Reviewer 3: Link for this: [`/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/#graceful-node-shutdown`](https://k8s.io/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/#graceful-node-shutdown)

Author: Added this in the latest commit.

Currently, when a node shuts down, Pods do not follow the expected termination lifecycle and are not shutdown gracefully. This can introduce problems with a lot of different workloads. Going forward, Kubelet will be able to propagate the shutdown signal to Pods ensuring they can terminate as gracefully as possible.

> ### PV Health Monitor

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### PersistentVolume Health Monitor
```

Author: Addressed this in the latest commit

Physical Volumes (PV) are commonly used in applications to get local, file-based storage. They can be used in many different ways and help users migrate applications without needing to re-write storage backends.

Kubernetes 1.21 has a new alpha feature which allows PVs to be monitored for health of the volume and marked accordingly if the volume becomes unhealthy. Workloads will be able to react to the health state to protect data from being written or read from a volume that is unhealthy.

### Reducing Kubernetes Build Maintenance
Previously Kubernetes has maintained multiple build systems. This has often been a source of friction and complexity for new and current contributors.

Over the last release cycle, a lot of work has been put in to simplify the build process, and standardize on the native Golang build tools. This should empower broader commmunity maintenance, and lower the barier to entry for new contributors.

## Major Changes

> ### PodSecurityPolicy Deprecation

Reviewer 3: Should we mention that PodSecurityPolicy was previously beta? Some people might assume it was stable. The live docs won't show that it went from beta to deprecated (they'll have it marked as deprecated, which is correct!) - you'd have to look at the feature gate table.

Reviewer 3: Looks good to me, thanks!

As of Kubernetes 1.21 PodSecurityPolicies in their current form will be deprecated. Even though the feature has been deprecated, it will continue to be available and function as before until Kubernetes 1.25. Going forward, there is a proposal in place for a simplified feature that will fill the basic use cases of PodSecurityPolicies.

SIG security has prepared a dedicated blog post with more details about the PodSecurityPolicy feature deprecation. You can read that [here.]()

> 

Reviewer: @divya-mohan0209 - @IanColdwater has suggested changing this section to:

> In Kubernetes 1.21, PodSecurityPolicy is deprecated. As with all Kubernetes feature deprecations, PodSecurityPolicy will continue to be available and fully-functional for several more releases. PodSecurityPolicy is currently planned for remvoal in Kubernetes 1.25.

> What's next? We're developing a new feature, tentatively called PodIsolationPolicy, that covers the key PodSecurityPolicy use cases with greatly improved ergonomics and maintainability. To learn more, check out the PSP feature blog [here](link to the larger blog).

Reviewer 3: Presenting the same text as Markdown:
```markdown
In Kubernetes 1.21, PodSecurityPolicy is deprecated. As with all Kubernetes
feature deprecations, PodSecurityPolicy will continue to be available and fully-functional for
several more releases. PodSecurityPolicy is planned for removal in Kubernetes 1.25.

What's next? We're developing a new feature, tentatively called PodIsolationPolicy,
that covers the key PodSecurityPolicy use cases with greatly improved ergonomics and
maintainability. To learn more, check out the PSP feature blog [here](link to the larger blog).
```
I also fixed a typo and tweaked a word (“currently”).

I recommend using the _title_ of the other article as the link text.

Author: Once we have the blog name, I shall have the [here] reworded.

## Other Updates

### Graduated to Stable

* [EndpointSlice](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/752)
* [Add sysctl support](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/34)
* [PodDisruptionBudgets](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/85)

### Notable Feature Updates

> * [External client-go credential providers](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/541)

Reviewer 3: What's the update? Is it a graduation to stable?

Author: I've marked it as alpha in 1.21. PTAL & lmk  if that's fine :)

> * [Structured logging](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1602)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [Structured logging](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1602) - graduating to beta
```

> * [Jobs and Pods TTL after finish](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/592)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [TTL after finish cleanup for Jobs and Pods](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/592) - graduating to beta
```
?

Author: Added this in the latest commit, thank you!

# Availability of release

Kubernetes 1.21 is available for [download on GitHub](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.21.0). There are some great resources out there for getting started with Kubernetes. You can check out some [interactive tutorials](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/) on the main Kubernetes site, or run a local cluster on your machine using Docker containers with [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io). If you’d like to try building a cluster from scratch, check out the [Kubernetes the Hard Way](https://github.com/kelseyhightower/kubernetes-the-hard-way) tutorial by Kelsey Hightower.

# Release Team

This release was made possible by a very dedicated group of individuals, who came together as a team in the midst of a lot of things happening out in the world. A huge thank you to the release lead Nabarun Pal, and to everyone else on the release team for supporting each other, and working so hard to deliver the 1.21 release for the community.

# Release Logo

![Kubernetes 1.21 Release Logo](XXXX)

# User Highlights

> - CNCF welcomes 47 new organizations across the globe as members to advance Cloud Native technology further at the start of 2021! These [new members](https://www.cncf.io/announcements/2021/02/24/cloud-native-computing-foundation-welcomes-47-new-members-at-the-start-of-2021/) will join CNCF at the upcoming 2021 KubeCon + CloudNativeCon events, including [KubeCon + CloudNativeCom EU – Virtual](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/) from May 4 – 7, 2021, and [KubeCon + CloudNativeCon NA in Los Angeles](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-north-america/) from October 12 – 15, 2021.

Author: @mrbobbytables : This is more around the 47 new organizations joining CNCF bit. Do you want me to write up an alternate blurb with contents from this announcement - https://www.cncf.io/announcements/2021/02/24/cloud-native-computing-foundation-welcomes-47-new-members-at-the-start-of-2021/#:~:text=%E2%80%93%20February%2024%2C%202020%20%E2%80%93%20The,driving%20cloud%20native%20technology%20innovation.?

> - CNCF welcomes 47 new organizations across the globe as members to advance Cloud Native technology further at the start of 2021! These [new members](https://www.cncf.io/announcements/2021/02/24/cloud-native-computing-foundation-welcomes-47-new-members-at-the-start-of-2021/) will join CNCF at the upcoming 2021 KubeCon + CloudNativeCon events, including [KubeCon + CloudNativeCom EU – Virtual](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/) from May 4 – 7, 2021, and [KubeCon + CloudNativeCon NA in Los Angeles](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-north-america/) from October 12 – 15, 2021.

Reviewer 4: That sgtm 👍

# Project Velocity

The [CNCF K8s DevStats project](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/) aggregates a number of interesting data points related to the velocity of Kubernetes and various sub-projects. This includes everything from individual contributions to the number of companies that are contributing, and is a neat illustration of the depth and breadth of effort that goes into evolving this ecosystem.

In the v1.21 release cycle, which ran for 12 weeks (January 11 to April 8), we saw contributions from [999 companies](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/d/9/companies-table?orgId=1&var-period_name=v1.20.0%20-%20now&var-metric=contributions) and [1279 individuals](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/d/66/developer-activity-counts-by-companies?orgId=1&var-period_name=v1.20.0%20-%20now&var-metric=contributions&var-repogroup_name=Kubernetes&var-country_name=All&var-companies=All).

# Ecosystem Updates

> Master -> Main default branch migration [(PR#21451)](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/pull/21451) is here! This migration divides tests as main and release branches, removes v1alpha2 tests and adds apidiff test, and fixes naming from master to main.

Author: @mrbobbytables : Please could you let me know where the guidelines for migrating would be? I'll link that here instead.

> Master -> Main default branch migration [(PR#21451)](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/pull/21451) is here! This migration divides tests as main and release branches, removes v1alpha2 tests and adds apidiff test, and fixes naming from master to main.

Reviewer 3: Also consider using &rarr; for arrows rather than ->.

> Master -> Main default branch migration [(PR#21451)](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/pull/21451) is here! This migration divides tests as main and release branches, removes v1alpha2 tests and adds apidiff test, and fixes naming from master to main.

Reviewer 4: Our guidelines are at k8s.dev/rename
It's not really an ecosystem update though as all this stuff is in Org and we've had multiple repos go through that process. I'd lean on removing the entry and highlight we can now have the process in place to migrate

# Event Updates

- KubeCon + CloudNativeCon Europe 2021 will take place May 4 - 7, 2021! Registration opened on January 11. You can find more information about the conference [here](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/).
- Kubernetes Community Days are being relaunched! Q1 will start with Africa and Bengaluru. You can find more information [here](https://kubernetescommunitydays.org/).

# Upcoming release webinar

Stay tuned for the upcoming release webinar happening this May.

# Get Involved

If you’re interested in contributing to the Kubernetes community, Special Interest Groups (SIGs) are a great starting point. Many of them may align with your interests! If there are things you’d like to share with the community, you can join the weekly community meeting, or use any of the following channels:

> * Find out more about contributing to Kubernetes at the new [Kubernetes Contributor website](https://www.kubernetes.dev/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Find out more about contributing to Kubernetes at the [Kubernetes Contributor website](https://www.kubernetes.dev/)
```
? It's been around for some time now - do we still think of it as new?

Author: I've removed the new, thanks for this one!

* Follow us on Twitter [@Kubernetesio](https://twitter.com/kubernetesio) for latest updates
* Join the community discussion on [Discuss](https://discuss.kubernetes.io/)
* Join the community on [Slack](http://slack.k8s.io/)

> * Share your Kubernetes [story](https://docs.google.com/a/linuxfoundation.org/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScuI7Ye3VQHQTwBASrgkjQDSS5TP0g3AXfFhwSM9YpHgxRKFA/viewform)

Reviewer 4: I don't believe this is in use anymore. @oicheryl @kgamanji can you confirm?

Author: @mrbobbytables : This has been done. Would you please be able to take a look whenever free and let me know for any changes that need to be made? Thank you!

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes 1.21: XXXX'
date: 2021-04-08
slug: kubernetes-1-21-release-announcement
---

**Authors:** [Kubernetes 1.21 Release Team](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/blob/master/releases/release-1.21/release_team.md)

We’re pleased to announce the release of Kubernetes 1.21, our first release of 2021!
This release consists of 49 enhancements: 15 enhancements have graduated to stable, 15 enhancements are moving to beta, and 19 enhancements are entering alpha.

## Major Themes

### CronJobs Graduate to Stable!
[CronJobs](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/cron-jobs/) (previously ScheduledJobs) has been a beta feature since Kubernetes 1.8! With 1.21 we get to finally see this widely used API graduate to stable.

> CronJobs are meant for performing all time-related actions, namely backups, report generation and so on. Each of these tasks should be allowed to run repeatedly (once a day/month, etc.) or once at a given point in time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
CronJobs are meant for performing regular scheduled actions such as backups, report generation, and so on. Each of those tasks should be configured to recur indefinitely (for example: once a day / week / month); you can define the point in time within that interval when the job should start.
```

I'm pretty confident that we _ don't_ have an API for “run this scheduled Job exactly once at a specified time and never repeat it”, so I'm suggesting wording aimed at clarifying this ambiguity.

Author: Thank you so much for this one. I really felt that this couldn't have been reworded better but you definitely managed to make it sound 100X better :)

### Immutable Secrets and ConfigMaps
[Immutable Secrets](/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#secret-immutable) and [ConfigMaps](/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/#configmap-immutable) adds a new field to those resource types which will reject changes to those objects if set. Secrets and ConfigMaps by default are mutable which is beneficial for pods that are able to consume changes. Mutating Secrets and ConfigMaps can also cause problems if a bad configuration is pushed for pods that use them.

By marking Secrets and ConfigMaps as immutable you can be sure your application configuration won't change. If you want to make changes you'll need to create a new, uniquly named Secret or ConfigMap and deploy a new pod to consume that resource. Immutable resources also have scaling benefits because controllers do not need to poll the API server to watch for changes.

> This feature is now graduating to stable in Kubernetes 1.21.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This feature has graduated to stable in Kubernetes 1.21.
```

Author: Has been addressed in the latest commit :)

### IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack support

> IP addresses are a consumable resource that cluster operators and administrators need to make sure are not exhausted. Having dual-stack support enables native IPv6 routing to pods and services, and it also improves a possible scaling limitation for workloads.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
IP addresses are a consumable resource that cluster operators and administrators need to make sure are not exhausted. In particular, public IPv4 addresses are now scarce. Having dual-stack support enables native IPv6 routing to pods and services, whilst still allowing your cluster to talk IPv4 where needed. Dual-stack cluster networking also improves a possible scaling limitation for workloads.
```
(rewording because single-stack IPv6 was already possible, but without being able to talk to the IPv4 internet it wasn't particularly useful).

Author: Has been addressed in the latest commit, thank you so much! :)

> Dual-stack support in Kubernetes means pods, services, and nodes can get IPv4 addresses and IPv6 addresses. In Kubernetes 1.21 dual-stack support is graduating from [alpha](/docs/concepts/services-networking/dual-stack/) to beta and is now enabled by default.

Reviewer 3: I'd write:
```suggestion
Dual-stack support in Kubernetes means that pods, services, and nodes can get IPv4 addresses and IPv6 addresses. In Kubernetes 1.21 [dual-stack networking](/docs/concepts/services-networking/dual-stack/) has graduated from alpha to beta, and is now enabled by default.
```

Author: Has been addressed in the latest commit, thank you so much! :)

### Graceful Node Shutdown

> [Graceful Node shutdown](/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/#graceful-node-shutdown) is graduating to beta with this release (and will now be available to a much larger group of users!). This is a hugely beneficial feature that allows Kubelet to be aware of Node shutdown, and gracefully terminate pods that are scheduled to that Node.

Reviewer 3: just some nits:
```suggestion
[Graceful Node shutdown](/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/#graceful-node-shutdown) also graduated to beta with this release (and will now be available to a much larger group of users)! This is a hugely beneficial feature that allows the kubelet to be aware of node shutdown, and gracefully terminate pods that are scheduled to that node.
```

Author: Has been addressed in the latest commit, thank you so much! :)

> Currently, when a node shuts down, pods do not follow the expected termination lifecycle and are not shutdown gracefully. This can introduce problems with a lot of different workloads. Going forward, Kubelet will be able to propagate the shutdown signal to pods ensuring they can terminate as gracefully as possible.

Reviewer 3: I'd write:
```suggestion
Currently, when a node shuts down, pods do not follow the expected termination lifecycle and are not shut down gracefully. This can introduce problems with a lot of different workloads. Going forward, the kubelet will be able to detect imminent system shutdown through systemd, then inform running pods so they can terminate as gracefully as possible.
```

Author: Has been reworded per suggestion in the latest commit, thank you so much! :)

### PersistentVolume Health Monitor
Physical Volumes (PV) are commonly used in applications to get local, file-based storage. They can be used in many different ways and help users migrate applications without needing to re-write storage backends.

Kubernetes 1.21 has a new alpha feature which allows PVs to be monitored for health of the volume and marked accordingly if the volume becomes unhealthy. Workloads will be able to react to the health state to protect data from being written or read from a volume that is unhealthy.

### Reducing Kubernetes Build Maintenance
Previously Kubernetes has maintained multiple build systems. This has often been a source of friction and complexity for new and current contributors.

> Over the last release cycle, a lot of work has been put in to simplify the build process, and standardize on the native Golang build tools. This should empower broader commmunity maintenance, and lower the barier to entry for new contributors.

Reviewer 3: Spelling nits
```suggestion
Over the last release cycle, a lot of work has been put in to simplify the build process, and standardize on the native Golang build tools. This should empower broader community maintenance, and lower the barrier to entry for new contributors.
```

Author: Has been addressed in the latest commit, thank you so much! :)

## Major Changes

### PodSecurityPolicy Deprecation
In Kubernetes 1.21, PodSecurityPolicy is deprecated. As with all Kubernetes feature deprecations, PodSecurityPolicy will continue to be available and fully-functional for several more releases. PodSecurityPolicy, previously in the beta stage, is planned for removal in Kubernetes 1.25.

> What's next? We're developing a new feature, tentatively called PodIsolationPolicy, that covers the key PodSecurityPolicy use cases with greatly improved ergonomics and maintainability. To learn more, check out the PSP feature blog [here]().

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
What's next? We're developing a new built-in mechanism to help limit Pod privileges, with a working title of “PSP Replacement Policy”. Our plan is for this new mechanism to cover all the key PodSecurityPolicy use cases, and with greatly improved ergonomics and maintainability. To learn more, read [PodSecurityPolicy: Past, Present, and Future](#).
```
@tabbysable how does this look?

Author: @tabbysable : Please lmk if there are any changes to this. Have committed it already to the current version, but am open to making changes :)

Reviewer 5: I have one serious concern and a few nits with this; I'll put a suggested change

Author: Addressed it in the latest commit :)

### TopologyKeys Deprecation

> The service field topologyKeys is being deprecated and replaced with a new feature called topology-aware hints, which will be released as alpha in Kubernetes 1.21. You can read more details about the proposed changes in the [KEP](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/2433-topology-aware-hints/README.md)

Reviewer 3: How about:
```suggestion
The Service field `topologyKeys` is now deprecated; all the component features that used this field were previously alpha, and are now also deprecated.

We've replaced `topologyKeys` with a way to implement topology-aware routing, called topology-aware hints.  Topology-aware hints are an alpha featuee in Kubernetes 1.21. You can read more details about the replacement feature in [Topology Aware Hints](/docs/concepts/services-networking/topology-aware-hints/); the related [KEP](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/2433-topology-aware-hints/README.md) explains the context for why we switched.
```

Author: @salaxander : I have made changes to the blurb and committed it, please can you cross-check with the Enhancement owner once?

Reviewer: @divya-mohan0209 This looks good

## Other Updates

### Graduated to Stable

* [EndpointSlice](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/752)
* [Add sysctl support](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/34)

> * [PodDisruptionBudgets](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/85)

Reviewer 3: For these stable features we could link to the docs pages rather than the KEPs - which do we prefer?

Author: We've just followed what was done in previous Comms blogs & have linked to the KEPs. I do not really have a preference per se & don't mind either.

### Notable Feature Updates

> * [External client-go credential providers](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/541) - alpha in 1.21

Reviewer 3: I think these are [beta](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/541#issuecomment-773827118). Is that right?

Author: Yep, my bad.

* [Structured logging](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1602) - graduating to beta

> * [TTL after finish cleanup for Jobs and Pods](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/592) - graduating to beta

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [TTL after finish cleanup for Jobs and Pods](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/592) - graduated to beta
```
?

Author: Has been addressed in the latest commit, thank you so much! :)

- We now have a process in place for migration of the default branch from master → main. Learn more about the guidelines [here](k8s.dev/rename)
- CNCF and the Linux Foundation have announced the availability of their new training course,[LFS260 – Kubernetes Security Essentials](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/training/kubernetes-security-essentials-lfs260/).In addition to providing skills and knowledge on a broad range of best practices for securing container-based applications and Kubernetes platforms, the course is also a great way to prepare for the recently launched [Certified Kubernetes Security Specialist](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/certification/certified-kubernetes-security-specialist/) certification exam.

# Event Updates

- KubeCon + CloudNativeCon Europe 2021 will take place May 4 - 7, 2021! Registration opened on January 11. You can find more information about the conference [here](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/).

> - Kubernetes Community Days are being relaunched! Q1 will start with Africa and Bengaluru. You can find more information [here](https://kubernetescommunitydays.org/).

Reviewer 3: You could write this as:
```suggestion
- [Kubernetes Community Days](https://kubernetescommunitydays.org/) are being relaunched! Q2 2021 will start with Africa and Bengaluru.
```
(Switching to Q2 as Q1 of 2021 is already finished).

Author: Agreed, this was supposed to happen in the end of Q2 when we drafted the blog. Thank you for catching it!

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes 1.21: XXXX'
date: 2021-04-08
slug: kubernetes-1-21-release-announcement
---

> **Authors:** [Kubernetes 1.21 Release Team](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/blob/master/releases/release-1.21/release_team.md)

Reviewer 3: BTW, https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/blob/master/releases/release-1.21/release_team.md is a 404

Author: https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/tree/master/releases/release-1.21/release-team.md should be the correct path. Will modify it, thank you for the catch!

Author: This has now been modified in the latest commit :)

Dual-stack support in Kubernetes means that pods, services, and nodes can get IPv4 addresses and IPv6 addresses. In Kubernetes 1.21 [dual-stack networking](/docs/concepts/services-networking/dual-stack/) has graduated from alpha to beta, and is now enabled by default.

### Graceful Node Shutdown
[Graceful Node shutdown](/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/#graceful-node-shutdown) also graduated to beta with this release (and will now be available to a much larger group of users)! This is a hugely beneficial feature that allows the kubelet to be aware of node shutdown, and gracefully terminate pods that are scheduled to that node.

Currently, when a node shuts down, pods do not follow the expected termination lifecycle and are not shut down gracefully. This can introduce problems with a lot of different workloads. Going forward, the kubelet will be able to detect imminent system shutdown through systemd, then inform running pods so they can terminate as gracefully as possible.

### PersistentVolume Health Monitor

> Physical Volumes (PV) are commonly used in applications to get local, file-based storage. They can be used in many different ways and help users migrate applications without needing to re-write storage backends.

Reviewer 6: Is this supposed to be Physical Volumes or Persistent Volumes? The section header says Persistent, but also, PV is often used to refer to PersistentVolumes.

Reviewer 3: I wouldn't abbreviate “Physical Volume” to PV, even if Physical Volume is the correct term. I'm guessing though that PersistentVolume / persistent volume is correct.

Reviewer 3: I expanded PV to PersistentVolume in https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/27233#discussion_r602511434 - that might have been incorrect.

Reviewer 6: Looking at the KEP (https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/1077), this seems to be about Persistent Volumes.

Author: Thank you for the catch, both of you :) I have modified this in the latest commit!

Kubernetes 1.21 has a new alpha feature which allows PVs to be monitored for health of the volume and marked accordingly if the volume becomes unhealthy. Workloads will be able to react to the health state to protect data from being written or read from a volume that is unhealthy.

### Reducing Kubernetes Build Maintenance
Previously Kubernetes has maintained multiple build systems. This has often been a source of friction and complexity for new and current contributors.

Over the last release cycle, a lot of work has been put in to simplify the build process, and standardize on the native Golang build tools. This should empower broader community maintenance, and lower the barrier to entry for new contributors.

## Major Changes

### PodSecurityPolicy Deprecation
In Kubernetes 1.21, PodSecurityPolicy is deprecated. As with all Kubernetes feature deprecations, PodSecurityPolicy will continue to be available and fully-functional for several more releases. PodSecurityPolicy, previously in the beta stage, is planned for removal in Kubernetes 1.25.

> What's next? We're developing a new built-in mechanism to help limit Pod privileges, with a working title of “PSP Replacement Policy”. Our plan is for this new mechanism to cover all the key PodSecurityPolicy use cases, and with greatly improved ergonomics and maintainability. To learn more, read [PodSecurityPolicy: Past, Present, and Future](#).

Reviewer 5: 3 things in this suggestion:
* It's important to remove the word "all" because no-one can confidently state they've enumerated all the key use cases.
* I've updated the blog post ref with the new title and slug
* Some nits around commas and "and", which I will not fight if you reject.

 ```suggestion
What's next? We're developing a new built-in mechanism to help limit Pod privileges, with a working title of “PSP Replacement Policy”. Our plan is for this new mechanism to cover the key PodSecurityPolicy use cases, with greatly improved ergonomics and maintainability. To learn more, read [PodSecurityPolicy Deprecation: Past, Present, and Future](/blog/2021/04/06/podsecuritypolicy-deprecation-past-present-and-future).
```

Author: @tabbysable Thank you for your review. I have incorporated your suggestions in the latest commit :)

### TopologyKeys Deprecation
The Service field `topologyKeys` is now deprecated; all the component features that used this field were previously alpha, and are now also deprecated.
We've replaced `topologyKeys` with a way to implement topology-aware routing, called topology-aware hints.  Topology-aware hints are an alpha featuee in Kubernetes 1.21. You can read more details about the replacement feature in [Topology Aware Hints](/docs/concepts/services-networking/topology-aware-hints/); the related [KEP](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-network/2433-topology-aware-hints/README.md) explains the context for why we switched.

## Other Updates

### Graduated to Stable

* [EndpointSlice](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/752)
* [Add sysctl support](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/34)
* [PodDisruptionBudgets](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/85)

### Notable Feature Updates

* [External client-go credential providers](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/541) - beta in 1.21

> * [Structured logging](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1602) - graduating to beta

Reviewer 6: As per https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1602#issuecomment-811865043, it seems like Structured logging will graduate to beta in 1.22.

Reviewer 3: Good catch @xmudrii

Author: Thank you @xmudrii & @sftim ! Have modified this in the latest commit :)

---
layout: blog

> title: 'Kubernetes 1.21: XXXX'

Reviewer 7: +1 to @annajung, make sure the actual title's in place before merging.

Reviewer 8: The title is in place now.

# Availability of release

Kubernetes 1.21 is available for [download on GitHub](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.21.0). There are some great resources out there for getting started with Kubernetes. You can check out some [interactive tutorials](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/) on the main Kubernetes site, or run a local cluster on your machine using Docker containers with [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io). If you’d like to try building a cluster from scratch, check out the [Kubernetes the Hard Way](https://github.com/kelseyhightower/kubernetes-the-hard-way) tutorial by Kelsey Hightower.

# Release Team

This release was made possible by a very dedicated group of individuals, who came together as a team in the midst of a lot of things happening out in the world. A huge thank you to the release lead Nabarun Pal, and to everyone else on the release team for supporting each other, and working so hard to deliver the 1.21 release for the community.

# Release Logo

![Kubernetes 1.21 Release Logo](XXXX)

> 

Reviewer 7: Delete extra whitespace
```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Just pushed an update to @divya-mohan0209 's branch to address the extra whitespace :)

# Project Velocity

The [CNCF K8s DevStats project](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/) aggregates a number of interesting data points related to the velocity of Kubernetes and various sub-projects. This includes everything from individual contributions to the number of companies that are contributing, and is a neat illustration of the depth and breadth of effort that goes into evolving this ecosystem.

In the v1.21 release cycle, which ran for 12 weeks (January 11 to April 8), we saw contributions from [999 companies](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/d/9/companies-table?orgId=1&var-period_name=v1.20.0%20-%20now&var-metric=contributions) and [1279 individuals](https://k8s.devstats.cncf.io/d/66/developer-activity-counts-by-companies?orgId=1&var-period_name=v1.20.0%20-%20now&var-metric=contributions&var-repogroup_name=Kubernetes&var-country_name=All&var-companies=All).

> 

Reviewer 7: Delete extra whitespace
```suggestion
```

# Ecosystem Updates

- In the wake of rising racism & attacks on global Asian communities, read the statement from CNCF General Priyanka Sharma on the [CNCF blog](https://www.cncf.io/blog/2021/03/18/statement-from-cncf-general-manager-priyanka-sharma-on-the-unacceptable-attacks-against-aapi-and-asian-communities/) reinstating the community's commitment towards inclusive values & diversity-powered resilience. 
- We now have a process in place for migration of the default branch from master → main. Learn more about the guidelines [here](k8s.dev/rename)

> - CNCF and the Linux Foundation have announced the availability of their new training course,[LFS260 – Kubernetes Security Essentials](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/training/kubernetes-security-essentials-lfs260/).In addition to providing skills and knowledge on a broad range of best practices for securing container-based applications and Kubernetes platforms, the course is also a great way to prepare for the recently launched [Certified Kubernetes Security Specialist](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/certification/certified-kubernetes-security-specialist/) certification exam.

Reviewer 6: Nit: whitespaces

```suggestion
- CNCF and the Linux Foundation have announced the availability of their new training course, [LFS260 – Kubernetes Security Essentials](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/training/kubernetes-security-essentials-lfs260/). In addition to providing skills and knowledge on a broad range of best practices for securing container-based applications and Kubernetes platforms, the course is also a great way to prepare for the recently launched [Certified Kubernetes Security Specialist](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/certification/certified-kubernetes-security-specialist/) certification exam.
```

Author: Done, thanks for the suggestion!

Author: Resolved this in the latest commit, thanks!

> - CNCF and the Linux Foundation have announced the availability of their new training course,[LFS260 – Kubernetes Security Essentials](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/training/kubernetes-security-essentials-lfs260/).In addition to providing skills and knowledge on a broad range of best practices for securing container-based applications and Kubernetes platforms, the course is also a great way to prepare for the recently launched [Certified Kubernetes Security Specialist](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/certification/certified-kubernetes-security-specialist/) certification exam.

Reviewer 2: nit space

```suggestion
- CNCF and the Linux Foundation have announced the availability of their new training course,[LFS260 – Kubernetes Security Essentials](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/training/kubernetes-security-essentials-lfs260/). In addition to providing skills and knowledge on a broad range of best practices for securing container-based applications and Kubernetes platforms, the course is also a great way to prepare for the recently launched [Certified Kubernetes Security Specialist](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/certification/certified-kubernetes-security-specialist/) certification exam.
```

Author: Done, thanks for the suggestion!

Author: Resolved this in the latest commit, thanks!

> 

Reviewer 7: Delete extra whitespace
```suggestion
```

# Event Updates

- KubeCon + CloudNativeCon Europe 2021 will take place May 4 - 7, 2021! You can find more information about the conference [here](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/).
- [Kubernetes Community Days](https://kubernetescommunitydays.org/) are being relaunched! Q2 2021 will start with Africa and Bengaluru.

# Upcoming release webinar

> Join the members of the Kubernetes 1.21 release team on May 13th, 2021 to learn about the major features in this release including IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack support,PersistentVolume Health Monitor, Immutable Secrets and ConfigMaps, and many more. Register here: https://community.cncf.io/events/details/cncf-cncf-online-programs-presents-cncf-live-webinar-kubernetes-121-release/

Reviewer 2: nit space & make the link clickable

```suggestion
Join the members of the Kubernetes 1.21 release team on May 13th, 2021 to learn about the major features in this release including IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack support, PersistentVolume Health Monitor, Immutable Secrets and ConfigMaps, and many more. Register here: [https://community.cncf.io/events/details/cncf-cncf-online-programs-presents-cncf-live-webinar-kubernetes-121-release/](https://community.cncf.io/events/details/cncf-cncf-online-programs-presents-cncf-live-webinar-kubernetes-121-release/)
```

Author: Done, thanks for the suggestion!

Author: Resolved this in the latest commit, thanks!

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes 1.21: Power to the Community'
date: 2021-04-08
slug: kubernetes-1-21-release-announcement
---

**Authors:** [Kubernetes 1.21 Release Team](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/blob/master/releases/release-1.21/release-team.md)

> We’re pleased to announce the release of Kubernetes 1.21, our first release of 2021! This release consists of 51 enhancements: 15 enhancements have graduated to stable, 15 enhancements are moving to beta, 19 enhancements are entering alpha, and 2 features have been deprecated.

Reviewer 2: Sorry! Last min change after going through all the enhancements again, some KEP owner changed their graduation status at the very end and was not reflect correctly in the enhancements sheet. 

```suggestion
We’re pleased to announce the release of Kubernetes 1.21, our first release of 2021! This release consists of 51 enhancements: 13 enhancements have graduated to stable, 16 enhancements are moving to beta, 20 enhancements are entering alpha, and 2 features have been deprecated.
```

Reviewer 8: Done! Thanks for raising this.

Reviewer: @palnabarun You got to this quick! Thanks for pushing the update :)
